# svmcausal-data
Replication data for ["Estimating Average Treatment Effects with Support Vector Machines"](https://arxiv.org/abs/2102.11926) by Alexander Tarr and Kosuke Imai.

## Repository Layout
This repository is split into several folders: ``code``, ``data``, ``figures`` and ``results``.

- ``code``: This folder contains all scripts needed to be run in order to generate all data to be used in creating figures.
- ``data``: This contains both the simulation data and the right heart catheterization data used in the empirical analysis in the paper.
- ``figures``: All Python code for replicating the eight figures in the paper, as well as the resulting PDFs.
- ``results``: Intermediary data created by scripts in the ``code`` folder. Data in this folder is used to create the figures.

## Installation
Recreating all figures and data provided in this repository requires working installations of [Python](https://www.python.org/downloads/), [R](https://cran.r-project.org/src/base/R-4/), and [Gurobi](https://www.gurobi.com/downloads/). All code in this repo was tested under Python version 3.7.1, R version 4.0.5, and Gurobi version 9.1.2 on a Windows 10 machine.

### Gurobi License
The Gurobi Optimizer requires a license to use, which is free for academics. Instructions for acquiring a license can be found [here](https://www.gurobi.com/academia/academic-program-and-licenses/).

### Python Dependencies
All Python code uses the following packages: ``gurobipy, matplotlib, numpy, pandas, scipy, scitkit-learn``.

### R Dependencies
All R code uses the following packages: ``ATE.ncb, designmatch, ipred, iWeigReg, randomForest, rdist, rpart, sandwich, stats, survey, tidyverse, twang``.

## Execution

### Figures
All figures in the paper can be recreated by executing the Python scripts in the ``figures`` folder using the provided results in the repo. For example, typing the following into terminal or command prompt

    python figures\fig1.py
  
will recreate a PDF for Figure 1.

### Results
The intermediary data computed by our algorithm and those we compare against can be replicated with the scripts provided in the ``code`` folder. There are three separate Python scripts, and five separate R scripts:

1. ``rhc_card.R``: This script computes the cardinality matching results for the right heart catheterization data. The script can be executed via ``Rscript`` or sourced directly inside an IDE, such as RStudio.

2. ``rhc_kcb.R``: This script computes the kernel covariate balancing results for the right heart catheterization data. The script can be executed via ``Rscript`` or sourced directly inside an IDE, such as RStudio.

3. ``sims_card.R``: This script computes the cardinality matching results for the simulation data. The script can be executed via ``Rscript`` or sourced directly inside an IDE, such as RStudio.

4. ``sims_kcb.R``: This script computes the kernel covariate balancing results for the simulation data. The script can be executed via ``Rscript`` or sourced directly inside an IDE, such as RStudio.

5. ``sims_lee.R`` This script computes the propensity score weighting estimates for the simulation data. The script can be executed via ``Rscript`` or sourced directly inside an IDE, such as RStudio.

6. ``validation.py``: This script computes SVM paths for a single dataset taken from Simulation A in the paper. Given the computed path, the script then computes the SVM-QIP solution at each breakpoint in the path. This code can be executed via

       python code\validation.py -k <KERNEL>

    where ``<KERNEL>`` specifies the kernel type. Choices are ``linear``, ``poly``, and ``rbf``. The results generated by this script are used in creating Figure 1 and Figure 2.
    
7. ``simulations.py``: This script computes SVM paths and the Kernel Optimal Matching (KOM) solution for Simulation A and Simulation B. This script also creates the simulation data found in the ``data\simulations`` folder. The syntax for executing this script is
    
       python code\simulations.py -k <KERNEL> -s <SIMULATION>
    
    where ``<KERNEL>`` specifies the kernel type, with choices ``linear``, ``poly``, and ``rbf``, and ``<SIMULATION>`` specifies the simulation, with choices ``G`` (Simulation A) and ``cw`` (Simulation B). The results generated by this script are used in creating Figure 3 and Figure 4.

8. ``analysis.py``: This script produces SVM and KOM results for the right heart catherization data. The syntax for executing this script is

       python code\analysis.py -k <KERNEL>
    
    where ``<KERNEL>`` specifies the kernel type, with choices ``linear``, ``poly``, and ``rbf``. The results generated by this script are used in creating Figures 5-8.
    
## Important Notes

- When fully replicating the results, scripts should be executed in the order listed above so that each method makes use of the most recent data as opposed to that already provided. 
- Full replication of the results in the paper require multiple calls to the Python scripts until all kernels and simulations have been passed to the script.
- Variance estimates for methods compared against SVM for the RHC data rely on two files, ``cv0.csv`` and ``cv1.csv``, which are contained in the ``results`` folder. These files contain the conditional variance estimates computed using a nearest-neighbors algorithm and can be recreated with ``analysis.py``.
- Potential issues with "File not found" errors in the R scripts can be resolved by manually setting the working directory to the parent directory of all R files, ``svmcausal-data\code\R``.
